FONTLOG
Gentium Plus font family
========================


This file provides detailed information on the Gentium Plus family of fonts.
This information should be distributed along with the Gentium Plus fonts and
any derivative works.


Basic Font Information
----------------------

Gentium ("belonging to the nations" in Latin) is a Unicode typeface family 
designed to enable the many diverse ethnic groups around the world who use 
the Latin script to produce readable, high-quality publications. The 
design is intended to be highly readable, reasonably compact, and visually 
attractive. Gentium has won a "Certificate of Excellence in Typeface 
Design" in two major international typeface design competitions: 
bukva:raz! (2001), TDC2003 (2003).

The Gentium Plus font family is based on the original design. It currently 
comes with regular and italic face only, although additional weights are in
development.

The goal for this product is to provide a single Unicode-based font family
that contains a comprehensive inventory of glyphs needed for almost any
Roman- or Cyrillic-based writing system, whether used for phonetic or
orthographic needs, and provide a matching Greek face. In addition, there
is provision for other characters and symbols useful to linguists. This
font makes use of state-of-the-art font technologies to support complex
typographic issues, such as the need to position arbitrary combinations
of base glyphs and diacritics optimally.

Two fonts from this typeface family are included in this release:

     * Gentium Plus Regular
     * Gentium Plus Italic

Work is ongoing to provide bold and bold-italic weights, as well as a
complete book-weight family.

For detailed documentation see the contents of the 'documentation' folder.


A Note Regarding the Open Font License and TypeTuner
----------------------------------------------------

The OFL prohibits the use of Reserved Font Names "Gentium" and "SIL" in
the name of any font that is derived from the Original Version of Gentium
Plus. However, SIL International (the Copyright Holder) grants through
this separate written agreement the right to use the Reserved Font Names
in any Modified Version of this font created by using TypeTuner as long
as the feature information contained in the Original Version is used, 
unmodified, as the source for TypeTuner feature information, and 
"Gentium Plus" is not the resulting font family name.

TypeTuner-produced fonts created in this manner are still bound by the
terms of the OFL. Specifically, the use of Reserved Font Names is
prohibited when making derivatives of a TypeTuner-produced font. Anyone
making a derivative of a TypeTuner font will need to find a different
name. For example a TypeTuner-produced font may be named 
"Gentium Plus Literacy SomeFarAwayPlace" but a derivative of that font made 
with other tools would not be allowed to use the "Gentium" and "SIL" 
Reserved Font Names and would have to be named something like "Nations Serif".


ChangeLog
---------
(This should list both major and minor changes, most recent first.)

12 September 2011 (SIL NRSI team) Gentium Plus version 1.508
- Removed the VDMX table
- Changed version number (using ttfsetver)

25 Aug 2011 (SIL NRSI team) Gentium Plus version 1.506
- Double-encoded the SIL PUA characters which were added to Unicode 5.2 and 6.0
  (using ttfremap)
- Corrected problem with coverage tables (using ttfsortcover)
- Changed version number (using ttfsetver)
- Added device metric tables
- Added an empty dsig table

16 Nov 2010 (SIL NRSI team) Gentium Plus version 1.504
- Added codepage bits for 1251 (Cyrillic), 1257 (Windows Baltic), 1258 
  (Vietnamese)

1 Nov 2010 (SIL NRSI team) Gentium Plus version 1.502
- Regular and Italic weights only
- New OpenType and Graphite support
- Converted kerning to OpenType (but not Graphite)
- New extended Cyrillic script support, inc. Serbian alternates
- Character set and features up to same level as Charis SIL 4.106
- Support for more historic Greek characters and alternate seriffed beta
- No separate GentiumAlt fonts (replaced by font features)
- Added WOFF versions and examples

28 Nov 2005 (Victor Gaultney)  Gentium version 1.02
- Changed licensing to the SIL Open Font License
- Included FontLab source files
- Fixed some duplicate PostScript glyph names
- Fixed italic angle

19 Sep 2003 (Victor Gaultney)  Gentium version 1.01 
- Maintenance release focused on changing internal font
- Information to reflect the changeover to an SIL project
- There is only one bug fix - the Greek mu PS name was changed to try and fix 
a display/printing problem. There is still no manual hinting.

16 Sep 2002 (Victor Gaultney)  Gentium version 1.00
- First public release
- No manual hinting is included in this version. Some has been done - with 
good results - but is not yet complete enough.


Information for Developers/Contributors
---------------------------------------

The release of Gentium Plus version 1.502 (and any subsequent versions) under 
the OFL license provides a means for people to modify the fonts to meet their
needs and contribute to the project. For information on what you're allowed to
change or modify, consult the OFL and OFL-FAQ.

Anyone can make their own modified version of Gentium Plus (using a different
name), but SIL International will continue to maintain and develop the
canonical version of the Gentium Plus fonts. As the package maintainer, we
welcome contributions. Here are some things to keep in mind:

Format: We are open to contributions in various formats, but if you want to
maximise the chances of us including your work, please make it available to
us (via email or a URL) as either a FontLab database (preferred) or a
PostScript Type 1 (or OT-CFF) font.

Source files: The primary source files for the fonts are the fonts themselves.
They contain all the important data in the fonts and can be studied and
modified using open font tools such as FontForge and TTX. The developer
release contains additional source files that might be useful. See the file
source/SOURCES.txt in that release archive for further information.

Copyright attribution: If you submit something for inclusion in the main
Gentium Plus fonts, we will ask you to affirm that it is your original work,
and ask you to assign the copyright of your work to SIL International. This
is to ensure that future releases can be made under improved versions of the
OFL without needing to track you down for further permission. This follows
the same principle used by the FSF. Keep in mind that we are a
not-for-profit organization committed to free/libre and open source
software, and that any contributions incorporated in the fonts will always
be available under the OFL or a similar license.

Quality: Because we want to be able to guarantee a high level of quality for
the primary Gentium Plus fonts, we will review submissions carefully. Please
don't be discouraged if we do not include a submission for this reason, or
ask you to make specific revisions.

Types of contributions: If you wish to make a contribution - a set of
additional glyphs, scripts, code, etc. - please contact us before you do any
work to see if it is a contribution we currently need. Every addition adds
to the complexity of the project and needs to be carefully planned. This
also avoids two people working on the same type of addition at the same time.

Linux packages: Please contact the upstream maintainer of the various 
packages - nicolas_spalinger@sil.org - if you want to help package or 
maintain a package.

When submissions will be included: We plan to revise the fonts when major 
updates are needed (eg new versions of Unicode). If you wish to make 
submissions, contact us on the timing. 


Acknowledgements
----------------
(Here is where contributors can be acknowledged. If you make modifications be 
sure to add your name (N), email (E), web-address (W) and description (D). 
This list is sorted by last name in alphabetical order.)

N: Victor Gaultney
E: victor_gaultney@sil.org
W: http://www.sil.org/~gaultney/
D: Original Designer

N: Annie Olsen
E: fonts@sil.org
W: http://scripts.sil.org/
D: Contributed some extended Latin glyphs

N: Iska Routamaa
E: fonts@sil.org
W: http://scripts.sil.org/
D: Contributed some extended Latin glyphs and extensive work on the italic face

N: SIL font engineers
E: fonts@sil.org
W: http://scripts.sil.org/
D: Graphite, OpenType, and TypeTuner code, and build support

The Gentium and Gentium Plus fonts are maintained by SIL International.

For more information please visit the Gentium page on SIL International's 
Computers and Writing systems website: http://scripts.sil.org/gentium

Or send an email to gentium@sil.org
